The Pond, by Madeline Scott

“I want to swim in the koi pond.” 
Yolanda and I were sitting on the edge of the pond, dead center in the middle of a huge manicured lawn on campus. The pond was a perfect square, like a Minecraft block of water surrounded by a ledge of cement. 
	“Why?” Despite being only ten feet deep at maximum, the pond was so murky that it was impossible to see even close to the bottom. 
	Yolanda shrugged in response. “I have a weird desire to see if I could catch one of the fish.”
	“What would you do with it?”
	She shrugged again. “Let it go, I guess.”
	I thought about this for a moment. She’d have to do it by feel, because opening your eyes under the water would be both ineffective and an invitation for pinkeye. The pond was small, and there were fifteen or so fish so there was a good chance she could do it.
	“That’s disgusting.” 
	“Kara, we evolved from primordial ooze. It’s not that gross.”
	“Yes, it is.”
	We walked by the pond every day on our way to Intro Botany. On Friday, our debate about whether or not polo shirts could be cool petered out when we got near the grass, and I saw Yolanda glance at the pond. 
“Oh my god, are you still on that koi thing?”
“Look, I think it would be fun!”
“But like, no it wouldn’t. It would be cold and icky, so why would you want to do it?”
Yolanda was silent for the rest of the walk to class. I could tell I’d upset her, but for some 
reason I it made me frustrated. Talking to her could be like talking to a bad professor; she just wouldn’t explain things and I’d have to read between the lines, imagining some rationale or personality behind what she said. 
	In class we talked about how China had just grown the first plant on the moon. Other people had grown plants on the International Space Station, but this was the first time a plant had grown on the actual surface. It was a cotton plant, and it died of the cold because the scientists hadn’t put a good heating device in their setup, which seemed like it would be step one of designing the growth chamber if you asked me. I felt sorry for the little guy. It had put out two whole leaves before withering away. I knew there wasn’t any wind on the moon, but I couldn’t imagine it sitting on the pale white dust without thinking of it fighting to stay upright against a celestial gale. 
As we left class, Yolanda said:
	“I’ve never touched a koi fish before, and I don’t know what’s at the bottom of the pond. Also, I know people throw coins into the pond and I wonder how many are down there.”
	“It’s just stupid.”
	They served fish for dinner in the dining hall, and I spent the entire evening thinking of a joke I could make that would break the tension. Like, ‘easier to get these fish than the pond ones!’ or ‘if I toss you some salmon and you catch it is that close enough?’ but they all felt forced and unfunny, because they were. 

	I’d almost forgotten about the koi over the course of the semester, but then on our way to the Botany final, Yolanda stopped walking. 
	“I’m doing it.”
	I was half paying attention and half reviewing the evolutionary role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in land plants, so it took a moment for me to get what she was saying.
	“Oh Jesus Christ, Yo, no you’re not, come on.”
	“Not right now. I’m not an idiot; I’m gonna take the test, but I mean tonight. I’m gonna do it.”
	I stared at her, and I wanted to laugh it off and also wanted to shake her. I didn’t know why I cared so much, but I also didn’t know why she cared so much.
	“Why do you want to do it, for real?”
	Yolanda paused, then we kept walking and she said, “we’re about to take the same test as four hundred and fifteen other people. Someone’s gonna get the highest score, and that’ll be good for them. But no one else in the class is going to swim in the koi pond and catch a koi fish tonight.”
	“You don’t have to give yourself a bacterial infection just to be special.”	
	She shook her head. 
	“That’s not it.”
	That night, I lay awake in bed. It was almost one am, so if she was gonna do it, she must’ve by now. It was such a waste of time. I wondered if she’d actually managed to catch one of the fish. I pulled out my phone.
	did u do it?
	It only took a second for her to reply.
	no.
	A wave of disappointment hit me. Did I want her to or not? Without thinking, I replied.
	meet there in ten?

	It was fucking cold out, and the fact that the wind was borderline-hurricanic didn’t help. We stood on the cement edge, and the water was pock-marked on the surface by tiny raindrop meteorites. Yolanda kicked her shoes off, then turned to look at me. She smiled, like a little kid in a treehouse. I unlaced my sneakers, placing them next to hers, then stood next to her. 
	“This is so stupid.” My chattering teeth made it hard to speak.
	“That’s the point,” she replied. She grabbed my hand, and we jumped together. 
	It was freezing. I kicked around, lost in the onslaught of cold and slime. But it was also quiet under the water. I kept my eyes closed, but my hands passed through the silky silt, and I could feel stalks of waterlilies. I kicked off the wall, arms outstretched. As I passed through the water, something brushed up against my elbow. Had I been in the air, I would’ve gasped. I turned toward it, then felt another move against my ankle. It felt like pure muscle slipping across my skin. If I moved, I would startle the fish. I reached for Yolanda, and moved her arm so it was pointing to the corner of the pond. She understood. Remaining as still as possible, we moved toward the edge of the pool, arms outstretched and coraling. I couldn’t see, or hear, or feel them, but I knew the fish were there. 
	We paused for a moment once we got to the corner, and soft ripples in the water hit my face. My lungs were starting to ache. Then, Yolanda pounced in a flurry of arms and fins and fingers and tails and scales. I moved forward too, grasping at the water and almost catching several. Then, I had to surface. When I opened my eyes, I saw Yolanda, pulling herself up to sit on the ledge. Next to her, in the grass, I could see something thrashing. 
	I jumped out, scraping my knee, and the two of us leaned over the koi fish. A lamp on the path nearby reflected off its scales, and so the first thing I noticed was that it was shiny. My arms were wet, so they were too, but the scales on the fish made it look pearlescent. Its mouth gaped open, gasping, and its eyes stared ahead into the rain. I reached out, and ran two fingers down its spine. Did I shiver because it was cold? 
	I glanced at Yolanda, sitting beside me. Her mouth was slightly open as she looked at the fish, and there was a bit of waterweed on her shoulder. Then, she smiled. 
	“Okay, let’s put it back,” she said. 
	I nodded. It didn’t take two people, but we both grabbed the fish, which was heavier than I thought it would be. Together, we knelt on the cement — which hurt my knee — and placed the fish back in the water. As soon as it was below the surface, it came alive again, shooting away into the pond. 
	“Thank you,” she said.
	“For what?”
	“Now I know what it’s like.”
	We walked back together, and I carried my shoes because I didn’t want to ruin them any more than the rain already had. But my feet in the grass felt nice, too, and I felt like I was cotton on the moon. 
